docs: add instructions to load development utilities (#405658)
NixOS/nixpkgs: doc/README.md

If the build succeeds, the manual will be in `./result/share/doc/nixpkgs/manual.html`.

> ### Shell utilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Development environment
```

This really has nothing to do with shells or any particular shell. I agree it's about utilities, but it would probably not be idiomatic to say "development utilities" or "contribution utilities"...

> In order to ease up your contribution workflow, consider loading the provided shell by using `nix-shell`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to reduce repetition, consider using tools from the provided development environment:
```

> You can load it from the root of the nixpkgs tree with:
> 
> ```ShellSession
> $ cd /path/to/nixpkgs
> $ nix-shell doc
> ```
> 
> Alternatively, you can load it by first entering the doc folder:
> 
> ```ShellSession
> $ cd /path/to/nixpkgs/doc
> $ nix-shell
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Load it from the Nixpkgs documentation directory with:

```ShellSession
$ cd /path/to/nixpkgs/doc
$ nix-shell
```
````

Let's not provide multiple (almost?) equivalent options, it's complicated enough as it is. If there's any reason to prefer to start at the repo root, use that of course. I picked the doc dir because with the direnv setup you simply skip the second command.

> From there, all utilities provided by the `shell.nix` file will be available in your PATH.

Reviewer: Which `shell.nix` file? The particular one in that directory doesn't even say what it provides because the source of truth lives somewhere else. Not sure the sentence is even needed...

```suggestion
```

> #### Automatic shell loading
> 
> If you would like to load the shell utilities automatically, you could use a tool like `direnv` with `nix-direnv`. If you already use NixOS, add `programs.direnv.enable = true;` to your configuration file to make them available.
> 
> Once `direnv` and `nix-direnv` are available in your system you can create a `.envrc` file inside the `doc` folder with the following content:
> 
> ```
> use nix shell.nix
> ```
> 
> To make sure that your commits are clear from direnv files, make sure to edit `.git/info/exclude` at the root of the repo with the following lines:
> 
> ```
> /**/.envrc
> /**/.direnv
> ```
> 
> Now, everytime you enter the `/path/to/nixpkgs/doc`, the shell will be loaded for you automatically.
> 

Reviewer: We already have the [direnv guide](https://nix.dev/guides/recipes/direnv) for that, so maybe we can collapse this to a link?

````suggestion
To load the shell utilities automatically when entering that directory, [set up `nix-direnv`](https://nix.dev/guides/recipes/direnv).
Make sure that your local files aren't added to Git history by adding the following lines to `.git/info/exclude` at the root of the Nixpkgs repository:

```
/**/.envrc
/**/.direnv
```
````

> ### devmode

Reviewer: Nesting that would neatly fit the topic of the shell environment

```suggestion
#### `devmode`
```

We could slightly simplify the description to make it say what it enables you to do instead of explaining how it works (which could move to in-source documentation).

If the build succeeds, the manual will be in `./result/share/doc/nixpkgs/manual.html`.

### Development environment

> In order to reduce repetition, consider using tools from the provided development environment:
> 
> Load it from the Nixpkgs documentation directory with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to reduce repetition, consider using tools from the provided development environment.
Load it from the Nixpkgs documentation directory with:
```

Double colon? Seems to be an editing artifact

Author: Hm, it was intentional as I tend to place them when breaking the flow of prose to show code or instructions. But I see the approach in nix.dev for example to not use them in cases like this so I removed then from here and nixpkgs's doc README.
